# pintos-doxygen
Pintos code documentation generated by Doxygen. 

The result is stored in the [html](/html) folder. View it [here](https://jhu-cs318.github.io/pintos-doxygen/html/index.html).


## Usage
Copy the [Doxygen](Doxygen) file to your pintos source root. Then execute `doxygen` 
in the source root.

Note that the original comments in pintos codebase does not conform to the Doxygen
[code comment format](http://www.doxygen.nl/manual/docblocks.html). You 
need to slightly change the comments:
1. For the struct or function description comments, add an extra `*` to the beginning.
   For example, the `pintos_init` function in `threads/init.c` is commented with 
   `/* Pintos main entry point. */`, change it to `/** Pintos main entry point. */`
2. For the member comments, in addition to adding an extra `*` to the beginning, 
   add an extra `<` that follows the second `*`. For example, the `devices/block.c`
   has a `struct block` with a member comment  `/* Element in all_blocks. */`, change
   it to `/**< Element in all_blocks. */`.

Since most of the comments in the pintos codebase are written in a consistent 
style, we provide a `convert_doxygen_comments.py` automatically does the above 
conversions.

Convert one source file:

```bash
python convert_doxygen_comments.py /path/to/pintos/src/threads/init.c
```

Or convert the entire source tree:

```bash
python convert_doxygen_comments.py /path/to/pintos/src
```

The above commands only convert and print the converted result to the console.
To be used by doxygen, the replacement has to be written to the file. Pass
the `--in_place` flag to the command will write the result to the original file.

**NOTE**: the `in_place` flag will modify the source files. Make sure you don't
have outstanding changes so you can easily revert the modifications with 
`git checkout src`. In addition, the command should only be applied once. 
If you invoke it multiple times, the original comment like `/* comment */` 
will become `

When you make changes to the codebase, if you want to keep the documentation
up to date, you should follow the Doxygen [code comment format](http://www.doxygen.nl/manual/docblocks.html).
Then you don't need to convert the comments any more.
